Welcome to the introduction to the image editor in this video.
You will make the iris for our bunny.
You'll learn how to export an image with transparency.
Only use Blender.
So there will be some limitations and understand that there are better programs for image creation and
editing such as Photoshop gimp et cetera.
So let's hop straight on over into blender.
So previously on blender we had our eyes that we just created here.
Now I just want to highlight one thing before we go any further because we won't be working on these
guys directly at the moment but if we go to flat shading in the tall shelf here you'll notice that I've
actually angled these eyes facing outwards from the bunny.
So we've used a u v sphere and this will act as the centre of our eye of our pupil and then the Iris
will go around here.
So it's worthwhile if you haven't done already rotating your eyes around so they're actually facing
outwards from your rabbit.
Of course if necessary turn the rabbit mesh back on unhide it so you can do that.
And then once you've done that we can hop into a brand new blender file so let's go ahead and open one
now.
Now just before we get going a few of you may be wondering well why are we just creating the geometry
we need straight away on the eye rather than going ahead and creating an image to put on the eye.
Well it's all to do with the level of detail required and the processing power required to make a realistic
Iris.
As you're about to see is going to add lots and lots of polygons to our scene.
If we were to make it real and have geometry to it.
But what we are going to do is create the geometry that we need to create the effect we want and we
go to do what's called baking.
We're going to solidify that into a picture and then use that picture by texture with in our model itself.
So let's carry on now and go ahead and make that Iris.
Okay so with a brand new start let's go ahead and create an iris.
So what is an iris Well it's a circle so let's get rid of our cube.
And what we're going to do here is add a circle in to our scene.
We're going to have to fill it.
Now it's entirely up to you.
But be as artistic if not free rein basically you can make this how you like but we do need to fill
it.
And I'm going to fill it with a triangle fan and I'm only going to fill it with 16 32.
The first is fine and I'm going to make the radius of three so that's quite a big circle and we're going
to look at it from the top.
Now I've got an option turned on I briefly mentioned it before.
When I go into topside front etc. It automatically switches to orthographic projection and that's just
to remind you guys is under user preferences interface and hear auto perspective very powerful.
I find it incredibly useful.
You may or may not like that turn on and off.
Do experiment with it.
Great little tip there.
Okay so now we've got our circle Let's hop over into edit mode and just have a quick look.
It looks pretty good so far.
I'm going to subdivide it's a little so I'm going to go down here on the tool shelf and father might
as well make that a bit bigger.
Oh no argument.
The operator panel in a moment.
All choices choices can have just hit some of the viant Twice there.
So you've got this wiggly pattern going round and I'm going to increase the level of fractals round
here so this makes it a bit more jagged.
Excellent.
So now that I've done that.
If we just render obviously the camera's not in the right position at the moment when wherever we render
something it appears here in the image editor and we will need to do this.
This is going to be our image that's going to become our texture shortly.
This is what we're going to be working on so we can see straightaway by going through to the end be
in line about it that the camera's not in the right place.
So let's go ahead and shift the camera to the right view.
Now where you see something here.
I'm going to hop back to the 3D view.
We'll give you something here that we've done in the past and that is switch to the camera.
Change the view to the camera as well.
And once we've done that I'm going to open up the propertys panel here and lock the camera to view once
we've done that.
I'm going to use the manual options here to position the camera right above our object as Z cordiant
head doesn't matter and I'll tell you why it doesn't matter in a second.
The rotation.
0 0 and 90.
Okay.
Brilliant.
So this is how we would view it.
Otherwise it's facing directly down on us seen at the moment.
Now before we do anything else the next thing we need to do is go to the camera properties and then
change it to orthographic.
And that's why this distance here the z coordinate doesn't matter because in orthographic projection
there is no zoom level.
It's all the appropriate signs.
We will also need to go over to the render properties here and change the resolution.
So I'm going to change the resolution here to 1 0 2 4 by 1 0 2 4 0 of mistyped something they're 1 0
2 4.
There we go.
So is Kred a square around our circle that we've made.
Finally I'm going to give our circle a bit of colour so I'm going to remember to unlock this option
down here on the properties because I'm going to move around in the moment and I'm going to go to circle
add a material to that circle and make its orange in this case.
And let's go and render and see how that's looking.
That's looking pretty good so far.
Probably need a few more highlights and things like that in there.
I'm actually going to use Blender render in a moment but I want to show you now before we go any further
how to make this grey background actually transparent because it's different in cycles and it's different
in blender render some and she cycles first since he's actually on the screen.
So we need to go to our render tab over here.
And when we scroll down there are two sections to be aware of.
First of all I'm always going to be rendering as a p engy it's a lossless format.
I'm going to make sure that it's r.g. be red green blue and a it will be like that by default.
But if you've changed it for some reason in the past it will need to be that way because we need this
final one which is the alpha channel which tells us the pasty of something or the opacity of something
which eventually of its set.
Zero means it's see through and transparent.
But of course there's no transparent option in this area here.
Under the outputs However further down under film there's a button that says transparent.
If we tick.
That's and then do the render.
We get as we can see here a transparency on the background.
Finally once you've done that with your rendering what you will need to do is save it so you go down
here to where it says image.
And we could save as image.
And when you do that I'm not in the right area at the moment someone close to my fluffy bunny folder
which is this one here.
Yeah.
And I'm going to call it Iris cycles.
And click save.
Now if I was doing the same thing in blender render then of course I would need to do slumping slightly
different song and switch to blend render at the top here.
I'm going to click render and is not going to work talker's the materials are different.
So let's go and add a material I'm still on circles.
I'm going to remove the material that was there.
I'm going to create a new material and again make it orange and just see how that comes out perfect.
There we go we've got ourselves another Iris but it doesn't have a transparent background.
So back over in the rendering tab over here there's a nother option it's on the shading So all of this
you still need r.g. be a.
And up here and the shading under.
And you need to change that to transparent.
And then if we go and render again we've got a transparent background.
And once again you can go to image and save as an image and go to Iris.
And I'm going to call this not cycles but be are short for blend render in this case and save the image.
Now a couple of other things when you do your final image of course you can change its resolution at
the moment it's 50 percent of one to four by one to four pixels so you could up that for a higher quality
play about with this.
Obviously I've gone from this jagged thing here you could make yourself a ball as I type I if you wanted
to add a couple of other things to consider before you finish off the rendering.
So let's talk about the image editing itself.
So it's down here.
You ve an image editor just there that's where it is.
And this is the view we've got now further along we've got our render result here we've got a series
of slots.
So if I switch to slot 2 and let's say change the material here from this orange to more of a read let's
say and render the image again.
I can now directly compare things because in slots one we're going to have our orange one in slots two
we're going to have our red one.
So it's a great way of doing lots of different renders very quickly and seeing which one you'd like
for most.
So that's great.
I think it's time to give you guys a challenge and your challenge is to create this texture using our
geometry to go ahead and create an iris.
I've gone through one particular way you can choose another if you want.
Now once you've done that you need to save your render with an image that has transparency so make sure
you pick the right file type.
And then finally be creative.
That is incredibly important.
Don't just follow along exactly what I'm doing.
Go ahead and create your own Iris.
Perhaps use different colours.
That's a good first step.
Or even a slightly different shape.
Share your results in the discussions and boer's the video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and create an iris.
Right so the first thing I want to do is looking at my model there are some sharp divisions here.
When I in-between these areas here so I don't mind that so much but I really do what I'm going to do
mine in blender render by the way I am.
I don't want those sharp divisions so and I want a bit more of a shadow as it goes in.
So in order to do that shadow I'm going to hop into edit mode only use these select everything hit the
C key and I'm going oh I don't want virtex selects I probably won't face select for this and select
those in areas there and I'm literally going to drag them down to create more of a dip.
I'm going to do circle select again.
Oh no I'm not I'm going to clear my selection first then I'm going to do circle select and select this
middle area hop around to the top view yeah that's the right area an owner and a extrude that downwards.
By not much but enough.
Yes there are some faces left up here which we could deal with but let's see if it adds or detracts
from our rent.
So let's go to render image and see how it looks.
Yes it does make it look a bit a bit worse for wear when that comes through.
I think I'm going to have to apply a subdivision surface modifier to our circle and it's going to render
it straight again.
All that much better.
I do like that.
It's not so jagged any more bit more natural but of course I'm going to have to deal with these nasty
edges racing up here.
So let's go to the 3D view and go to here.
Do circle select again and I'm going to change the z coordinate here of the things I've just selected
appropriately sangam a set it let's try minus point 5 initially.
Global setting of minus point five.
See if it moves it.
No that hasn't worked so let's go in and manually select these edges here and pull them down.
Let's go back and render and see how that looks real.
Actually thinking about it I don't care too much about this middle because theres going to be a black
pupil there.
So really this outside edge that I really care about have a let's just need to add it up ever so slightly
and those black lines aren't a bad thing.
So back to the 3D view.
There are few other bits sticking up shouldn't concern ourselves too much with them.
There we go.
How's it all looking.
Would be interesting to see it from the other side actually raised rather than lowered.
I'm liking the look of vatter with a select.
It's all I'm just going to add another subdivision's surface another subdivision here and render that
out.
In fact I need to do the render one not just the one we're looking at render that's much better much
more smooth.
I dont like this red colour.
So was a circle still selected here.
I dont have to go back to the 3-d view.
I can actually do it here when a name my material Iris am not sure which colours go for I quite like
the orange from earlier actually.
So let's just try that and render the image only play with the specular colour here and make that a
red rather than a have it starting to look a bit better and then each increase the intensity.
And of course you can play with this to your heart's content and just go backwards and forwards and
t get what you want out of it.
It's obviously different for everybody.
Now I'm quite liking that texture of there so what I'm going to do is going to go file and save as an
image and I am going to name this one.
Iris final There we go.
And save the image.
So great if you've not done already please share your iris in the discussions and I will see you guys
in the next lecture.